---
layout: blog
title: Some Food For Thought
slug: some-food-for-thought
date: 2019-12-08 08:42:26 -0800
thumbnail: /img/nachos_tiny.jpg
rating: 3
---

SB 1.2.6

स वै पुंसां परो धर्मो यतो भक्तिरधोक्षजे ।
अहैतुक्यप्रतिहता ययात्मा सुप्रसीदति ॥ ६ ॥

sa vai puṁsāṁ paro dharmo
yato bhaktir adhokṣaje
ahaituky apratihatā
yayātmā suprasīdati

The supreme occupation [dharma] for all humanity is that by which men can attain to loving devotional service unto the transcendent Lord. Such devotional service must be unmotivated and uninterrupted to completely satisfy the self.


---

## Give us the essence

The first thing the sages want to know is what is the essence of the Vedas. If you had to summarize the whole thing in a couple sentences, what would that be? 

Sages, of course, have time to understand the whole range of Vedic scriptures, but the common person needs an easy answer. A soundbite.

Common people do not traffic in subtely, in nuance. They are more comfortable with slogans. When pressed on the evidence supporting their faith in said slogan, they generally defer to an authority on the topic. 

It is nice to believe the correct thing and to practice it. But experts are necessary to defeat opposing viewpoints. 

These experts in Vedic culture are the brahmanas. They are well-studied in the literature. They can quote from Vedic evidence. 

Thus the Srimad-Bhagavatam is an act of compassion on the fallen souls of Kali Yuga. We lack the capacity to study the Vedas, so its essential contents have been summarized for us. 

The sages are questioning on our behalf, out of consideration for the "quarrelsome, lazy, misguided, unlucky and, above all, always disturbed".


## The Dharma of Man: Bhoga-tyaga

### Pravrtti-marga vs nivrtti-marga
The Vedas prescribe two occupations for the human being: the path of sense enjoyment vs. the path of renunciation.

The path of renunciation is superior, it entails sacrifice for the supreme cause. It is eternal (sat), blissful (ananda), and full of knowledge (cit). In contrast, the path of progressive material enjoyment is temporary (asat), miserable (nirananda), and illusory (acit).

Actual life is spiritual existence (brahma-bhuta). 
Material existence is a diseased condition of actual life.

## Dharma should be unmixed

The superior occupation must be pure, uncontaminated by the inferior occupation.

Devotional service for material gain means devotional service to heighten the symptoms of one's material disease, and increases its duration.

The material world is a hospital where no-one thinks they're sick. Some patients want to get out, the other patients think they're crazy. The first step to getting better is to take the medicine. But no-one wants the medicine. They simply want that which makes them more sick.

**Parables**: Plato's cave allegory, woman with bundle of sticks on head (script idea). 

## Connect to Krishna

Krishna is the central pivot for all living entities. He is the great great grandfather. We are related to everything in existence by virtue of this common source, common relation. 

Everyone should engage in his service, no matter their present conditional state of material existence. That will give us the clue to actual life and give us complete satisfaction.

