---
layout: blog
title: Some Food For Thought
slug: some-food-for-thought
date: 2019-12-08 08:42:26 -0800
thumbnail: /img/nachos_tiny.jpg
rating: 3
---

## The Four-Letter Code to Selling Just About Anything

https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/01/what-makes-things-cool/508772/

What makes things cool?

Labels

Humans instinctively sort and classify things. It’s how we make sense of a complex world.

When creating someting that doesn't fit into an established category, help people understand what comparison to make.

When people encounter something they don’t recognize, they make sense of it by associating it with something familiar.

## How to make things fashionable.

Consumers are torn between a curiosity about new things (neophilia) and a fear of anything too new (neophobia).

As a result, they gravitate to products that are bold, but instantly comprehensible

Loewy called his grand theory “Most Advanced Yet Acceptable” — MAYA.

To sell something surprising, make it familiar; and to sell something familiar, make it surprising.

This discovery was known as the “mere-exposure effect,” and it is one of the sturdiest findings in modern psychology. Across hundreds of studies and meta-studies, subjects around the world prefer familiar shapes, landscapes, consumer goods, songs, and human voices.

## Evo-psych

> The preference for familiarity is so universal that some think it must be written into our genetic code. The evolutionary explanation for the mere-exposure effect would be simple: If you recognized an animal or plant, that meant it hadn’t killed you, at least not yet.

Evolutionists classify all behaviour in terms of its reproductive benefits. This is the lens through which they view the world.

The Vedic perspective views human behaviour through the lens of the three modes of material nature. That one's decisions are governed by the predominance of the material qualities afflicting our consciousness.

### Future-time preference

From the point of view of consumer purchases, those in the mode of goodness would tend towards things which are long-lasting, which promote genuine health and well-being, the most rational of all economic agents. Pain in the beginning, pleasure in the end.

People who make purchases in the mode of passion are more fashion conscious, and are guided by short-term benefits of a purchase, disregarding the long-term depreciation in value. This means buying things to fit in. Pleasure in the beginning, pain in the end. inclined to risk, have a desire to be different.

The mode of ignorance, in contrast, is characterized by pain in the beginning, pain in the end.

### Risk aversion

Sattva guna is characterized by fearlessness. Risk is justified when actions are taken on behalf of a greater cause. Further, the emphasis is placed on the performance of duties rather than the result. If the means are justified, the ends are of little significance. They are not attached to outcomes.

In rajo-guna, risks are taken for material gain, or personal enrichment. Outcomes are primary. Acting in the mode of passion, the ends justify the means, so any actions are morally excusable or justifiable. The rewards are big, and the risk of failure is high.

Those in the mode of ignorance are inherently risk-averse. This contributes to the sudra-like mentality of wage slavery. Accepting a regular salary is safer than laying your chips on the table. There are levels of risk aversion within this mode, for example being a co-founder and accepting payment in shares. And there is always the choice of occupation, some jobs are more prone to layoffs than others. But this theme of safety and comfort is built-in to the sudra mentality: safe education for a safe career in a safe home in a safe neighbourhood.

How many entrepreneurs have slept in their cars of factory floors at some point.

One's beliefs operate in a similar fashion. One adopts and espouses beliefs which are safe and acceptable in polite society. Everything about one's existence is familiar, in order to avoid criticism or recrimination. Social norms demand that we toe the line. Conformity is expected with regard to our political opinions and our taste in consumer goods, clothes, lifestyle. Those who stray from this program are routinely mocked in the media. Social behaviours are normalized via the main engine of social engineering, Netflix.

Behaviours that were once considered extreme or exotic are slowly and gradually drip-fed into the public consciousness. Open Netflix today and see two men kissing. See drag-queen story hour. Female CEOs and super heroes. The Ghostbusters are now women.

> but repeated exposure of railroad people to this kind of advanced, unexpected stuff had a beneficial effect. It gradually conditioned them to accept more progressive designs.”

> in 15 of the past 16 years, the highest-grossing movie in America has been a sequel of a previously successful movie (for example, Star Wars: The Force Awakens) or an adaptation of a previously successful book (The Grinch)

> character-driven journey in which old stories wear new costumes

> Max Planck, the theoretical physicist who helped lay the groundwork for quantum theory, said that “a new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die, and a new generation grows up that is familiar with it.”

> Everyone dislikes novelty... There is an “optimal newness” for ideas, Lakhani said—advanced yet acceptable.

These things were thoroughly unfamiliar to the American public a generation ago.

These are attempts to change the culture, subvert traditions and cultural norms established over millenia. This requires advertising on a grand scale.

Ideas are like products that people buy. Which ideas do you buy into, and why?

There is a marketplace of ideas. Markets can be manipulated and distorted through advertisements, testimonials.

People in general are resistant to change, mainly due to fear of being deried by one's peer group.

The educational system was used to normalize such deviant behaviours and degenerate values. Language is manipulated, weaponized to induce obedience. Labels are created to castigate and blacklist non-conforming individuals.

We're seeing these campaigns unfold in real-time.

How do you make this cool?

Ignorance means turning things upside down.

## Is Beauty Subjective?

David Hume, the 18th-century philosopher, considered the search for formulas to be absurd, because the perception of beauty was purely subjective, residing in individuals, not in the fabric of the universe.
“To seek the real beauty, or real deformity,” he said, “is as fruitless an enquiry, as to pretend to ascertain the real sweet or real bitter.”
