---
layout: blog
title: Landmark Meeting
slug: some-food-for-thought
date: 2019-12-26 10:47:51 -0800
thumbnail: /img/nachos_tiny.jpg
rating: 3
---

# Pitch

Romeo and Juliet in Mayapur
A pair of star-crossed lovers attempt to reconcile their feelings for each other with their respective society's demands.

# Characters

- Boy - 21. educated at Gurukula his whole life. Set to graduate soon, he is confused about his next move. He is sheltered.
- Girl - 23. OPTION 1: career girl visiting Mayapur. She is frustrated with her life and relationships in the West (Australia, NA, Europe) and is open to a fresh start. She is new to Krishna Consciousness.
- Girl - 23. OPTION 2: city girl visiting Mayapur for her friend's wedding. Her friend is a devotee but she is brand new to Krishna Consciousness. She learns about KC through her friend, who is also semi-new.

# Outline

## Exposition

Boy and girl glance at each other during Kirtan Mela. Boy is playing mrdanga. Girl is dancing in crowd. They notice each other and there is a spark.

They each retire to their rooms: Gurukula boys back to their straw huts. Girl back to her hotel room. They can't get each other out of their heads.

## Rising Action

Girl inquires from her friends about how to get boy's attention. "No phone? No instagram? No tinder?" Boy considers his options, seeking advice from some of his outside friends, from the other school. They see each other in the temple again. Girl is getting attention from the other boys. They exchange glances. Boy sees her and his heart sinks but he is stoic about. Girl desperately wants to signal that she is interested but can't. The boy is always surrounded by other Gurukula boys.

They finally manage to talk. They exchange messages with one another. The boy sneaks out at night and they meet in a beautiful location.

## Climax #1

They meet a few more times. They like each other and talk about their life goals and dreams. She reveals how dissatisfied she is with her job, with the superficiality of her relationships. He reveals his financial insecurities, about his ability to provide. They talk about what it would be like to getting married and discuss their values.

They bring up this plan with their respective families, but meets with intense opposition from both sides. The Gurukula teachers encourage the boy in his new ashram but suggest he marry a nice Mayapur girl. They already have some candidates in mind. The girl's friends and family at home think this guy is a loser with no future.

They meet again one last time before she has to fly home. They exchange gifts.

## Falling Action #1

She flies home, dressed in Western clothes. She clutches her gift in her hand as she stares out the window. It is a Nrsimha Kavaca or a pavitra.

The boy is back at Gurukula, doing his service absent-mindedly and getting ready for bed. She gave him a present and he clutches it. It's a cell phone.

## Climax #2

At one of their midnight trysts, something bad happens.

1. The boy is spotted by someone in the community who reports him to his teachers.
2. They run into some local dacoits intent on harming them and hurting the girl.
